[MUSIC]
What are the objectives
of statistical models?
What can they accomplish and where do they
fit in the broader field of data science?
Statistics is concerned with
the entire process of planning,
collecting and analyzing data to draw
scientifically defensible conclusions.
Because these objectives are important
to a wide variety of disciplines,
you might encounter statistics in areas
ranging from business to medicine,
biology to sports,
social sciences to pharmacology.
Or agriculture to ecology.
This course is about statistical modelling
which falls under
the analyzing data objective.
So what is a statistical model?
In this course,
we're going to define a statistical model.
A statistical model will be
a mathematical structure used
to imitate, And approximate,
The data generating process.
It typically describes relationships
among variables while accounting for
uncertainty and variability in the data.
For example, let's consider an experiment
where we wish to reveal a cause and
effect relationship.
If the relationships between variables
are complicated or involve variables
that we can't measure, the data we collect
may appear to have random behavior.
We can account for
this apparent randomness or uncertainty or
variability using
the theory of probability.
Then, hopefully a statistical model
will help us identify structural,
such as cause and effect,
relationships hidden in the noisy data.
As an example of another source of
uncertainty and variability in your data,
let's consider a poll conducted
on a sample of likely voters.
Let's say that 57% of those polled are in
favor of one particular candidate.
When presented with these results,
it might be natural to ask,
how confident am I in this 57% number?
Does it mean that 57% of all
people favor that candidate?
Well that depends on several other
questions related to how well the poll
was conducted for example.
How were the participants selected?
How many people were polled?
If we repeated the poll on another
randomly selected sample of voters,
how might that 57% number change?
Using probability theory,
we can account for
the uncertainty surrounding this estimate.
For what kinds of problems might
we use a statistical model?
Here are four common objectives.
The first one we're going to talk
about is to quantify uncertainty.
In the polling example, we could
come up with a range of reasonable
estimates to put that
57% number in context.
Suppose a statistician
analyzes the poll data and
concludes that with 99% confidence,
the true percentage
of all citizens who favor
the candidate is between 51 and 63%.
That's a little more informative.
It gives us an idea of how much
we can trust this estimate.
The second objective we'll
talk about is inference.
In the polling example,
we only know a percentage of people in
the sample who support the candidate.
A statistical model helps
us extend the result and
infer what percentage of the total
population supports the candidate?
We may also have other demographic
information about each person in the poll.
A statistical model might allow us
to see how these other variables
relate to a person's likelihood
of supporting the candidate.
The next objective is
measuring the evidence in
the data in support or
against a hypothesis.
In the polling example,
suppose an expert hypothesizes
that the candidate is more
popular with men than with women.
Luckily we have further
breakdown of the poll results.
Let's suppose that 55% of
women favor the candidate and
59% of men favor the candidate.
Is this strong enough evidence to
support or validate the experts claim?
A statistical model could account for
the uncertainty in these estimates
to help us answer that question.
The fourth and
final modeling objective that we're
going to talk about is prediction.
In the polling example,
suppose we have demographic
information about a particular voter.
But we don't know which
candidate she supports.
We might employ a statistical model
to use what is known about about her
to make an accurate prediction
of her voting selection.
It is clear that statistical modelling
has much to contribute to data science.
Another key player in this
arena is machine learning.
How does that relate to
statistical modeling?
Broadly, machine learning uses algorithms,
some of which are based on or
can be formulated as statistical models,
to produce state of the art prediction.
That is, machine learning specializes
in and excels at this fourth objective.
Often, excellent predictions
come at the cost
of building complicated models
that are difficult to interpret.
For that reason, such algorithms
are frequently referred to as black boxes.
Of course, who would believe a model that
did not produce realistic predictions?
Objective four is almost always
important but doesn't necessarily
answer all of the questions an
investigator might have about their data.
Statistical models strive to balance
the objectives above to answer
the questions at hand.
[MUSIC]